Collect notable improvements of the 0.1.58 release (#25)
ComplianceAsCode/ComplianceAsCode.github.io: _posts/2021-09-31-release-0.1.58.md

$ PYTHONPATH=. utils/fix_rules.py  --product products/rhel7/product.yml add-cce accounts_tmout 
``` 

If you try the code above, you will find out that nothing has changed - the utility is able to detect that the rule already has a RHEL7 CCE.

If you are reading it as a non-RHEL developer, the tool accepts a `--cce-pool` options, that allow introduction of another CCE files than the one in `shared/references/cce-redhat-avail.txt`.
If you would like to bring your CCEs upstream, you will just need to extend the (cce.py)[https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/blob/master/ssg/cce.py] to integrate it with the script.

### Sorting of references and identifiers

### Migration of the shared Bash remediations functions to Jinja macros

Writing remediations is an important part of developing security content.
And although each rule addresses a single configuration change, different rules may need to run similar commands to remediate the system.
So it is only natural that the project provides a library to streamline development and reduce code duplication.

The project features two mechanisms that make Bash code available for use in remediations.

> The first mechanism are the [bash_remediation_functions](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/tree/v0.1.57/shared/bash_remediation_functions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first mechanism is the [bash_remediation_functions](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/tree/v0.1.57/shared/bash_remediation_functions).
```

> A mechanism that makes use of the XCCDF substitution capability to inject the Bash function into the remediations, this means that OpenSCAP is used to make the substituions and render the final remediation snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A mechanism that makes use of the XCCDF substitution capability to inject the Bash function into the remediations, this means that OpenSCAP is used to make the substitutions and render the final remediation snippet.
```

This approach also requires the remediation to declare an include for the build system to transform the Bash function calls into the XCCDF substitution syntax.

> The second mechanism are the [Jinja macros](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/blob/v0.1.57/shared/macros-bash.jinja), which are expanded during the content build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second mechanism is the [Jinja macros](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/blob/v0.1.57/shared/macros-bash.jinja), which are expanded during the content build.
```

> In this release a good portion of the Bash remediation functions were transformed into Jinja macros, and by next release all of them will have been moved up to macros.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release a good portion of the Bash remediation functions were transformed into Jinja macros, and by the next release all of them will be turned into macros.
```

Reviewer 2: @ggbecker I think the use of future perfect is correct.

Reviewer 2: It is actually passive future perfect. https://www.englishreservoir.com/all-passive-forms/future-perfect-3/

Reviewer: got it ;)

This will leave the project with a single mechanism, which should streamline how we define and make available Bash snippets to remediations.

> The expansion of the snippets at build time will provide more clarity on the final remediation;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The expansion of snippets at build time will provide more clarity on the final remediation;
```

---
layout: post
title: "Releasing ComplianceAsCode / Content 0.1.58"
categories: template
author: Gabriel Becker, Marcus Burghardt, Watson Sato, Matěj Týč
---

With a bit more than one thousand commits since last release we are happy to announce that ComplianceAsCode / Content v0.1.58 was [released](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/releases/tag/v0.1.58) on September 24th, 2021.

## Highlight of this release

The project now supports another checking engine: [Script Checking Engine (SCE)](https://www.open-scap.org/features/other-standards/sce/).

> By default, the content is built without SCE checks, check [Building SCE](https://complianceascode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/manual/developer/02_building_complianceascode.html?highlight=SCE#building-sce-non-compliant-content) section in the docs, for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the content is built without SCE checks, check [Building SCE](https://complianceascode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/manual/developer/02_building_complianceascode.html#building-sce-non-compliant-content) section in the docs, for
```

how to enable it.

> Note that content built with SCE checks are not SCAP compliant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that content built with SCE checks is not SCAP compliant.
```

## What's new in the content?

### New Profiles

> Notable new profiles in this release:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notable new profiles added in this release:
```

## What's new for content developers?

### Automated addition of CCEs

Tired of finding out that a couple of important rules doesn't have a CCE, because extracting one from a CCE pool and assigning it to a rule file is cumbersome?
The `fix_rules.py` utility has been extended, so it now automatically picks up a CCE in a CCE file, and places it right into the specified rule.

You can use it like this:

```
$ PYTHONPATH=. utils/rule_dir_json.py  # that's a general prerequisite of fix_rules
$ PYTHONPATH=. utils/fix_rules.py  --product products/rhel7/product.yml add-cce accounts_tmout 
``` 

If you try the code above, you will find out that nothing has changed - the utility is able to detect that the rule already has a RHEL7 CCE.

If you are reading it as a non-RHEL developer, the tool accepts a `--cce-pool` options, that allow introduction of another CCE files than the one in `shared/references/cce-redhat-avail.txt`.
If you would like to bring your CCEs upstream, you will just need to extend the (cce.py)[https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/blob/master/ssg/cce.py] to integrate it with the script.

> ### Sorting of references and identifiers

Reviewer: We are still missing this section text, should we drop it? @matejak @yuumasato

Reviewer 2: I can look into it.

Reviewer 2: Added in e01bf5c

Author: I have asked @Mab879 to give it a thought.

Reviewer: I'm ok with current text provided by @yuumasato in e01bf5c

The second mechanism is the [Jinja macros](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/blob/v0.1.57/shared/macros-bash.jinja), which are expanded during the content build.

In this release a good portion of the Bash remediation functions were migrated to Jinja macros, and by the next release all of them will have been migrated.
This will leave the project with a single mechanism, which should streamline how we define and make available Bash snippets to remediations.
The expansion of snippets at build time will provide more clarity on the final remediation;
And the Jinja templating engine provides a formidable customization power, allowing the Bash snippet to be expanded differently for each product, for example.

### Development environment setup via Ansible

We have now an Ansible [role](https://galaxy.ansible.com/marcusburghardt/ansible_role_openscap) to help us to very quickly prepare a completely functional development environment. About 10 minutes are enough for Ansible to safely conclude the hard work and deliver a ready to go development environment.

> This is a great option to start contributing faster, aligned with the official documentation while enjoying the automation benefits. : )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a great option to start contributing faster, aligned with the official documentation while enjoying the automation benefits.
```

### Sorting of references and identifiers

> ### Development environment setup via Ansible
> 
> We now have an Ansible role to help us to very quickly prepare a completely functional development environment. About 10 minutes are enough for Ansible to safely conclude the hard work and deliver a ready to go development environment.
> 
> This is a great option to start contributing faster, aligned with the official documentation and enjoying the automation benefits. : )
> 
> More information is found in the [development documentation](https://complianceascode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/manual/developer/02_building_complianceascode.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Development environment setup via Ansible

We now have an Ansible role to help us to very quickly prepare a completely functional development environment. About 10 minutes are enough for Ansible to safely conclude the hard work and deliver a ready to go development environment.

This is a great option to start contributing faster, aligned with the official documentation and enjoying the automation benefits. : )

More information is found in the [development documentation](https://complianceascode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/manual/developer/02_building_complianceascode.html).
```

Couple of suggestions

Reviewer 2: @ggbecker It is not clear what the suggestion is changing.

Reviewer: All right, I had some changes here but then I switched to a different page and I lost my suggestions... let me redo it :(

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the fine adjusts @ggbecker
